Source: r/UCI | Mesa Court vs Middle Earth detailed breakdown
URL:
Title: first year housing scoop
If you’re reading this because you got admitted and want to know more about middle earth (ME) / Mesa, congrats!!
      I’m wrapping up my first year here and have been able to experience living in both Mesa and ME, so I’ll just be giving a breakdown of Mesa vs. ME, and the “Towers” versus the “classics.”
      MESA/MIDDLE EARTH TOWERS: // pros:
      about as modern as you’ll get out of all the options here. rooms are generally nice, so are the bathrooms (1:4 ratio of people:stall/shower, which comparatively speaking is actually the best for this list).
      you’re wayyyyy less likely (if it all) to have pest or other problems with your building.
      bathroom is connected to the room, and you have elevators!
      you’ll have one of the two dining halls (Anteatery for Mesa, Brandywine for Middle Earth) right below you + proximity to ring road which is what most of your buildings will be on (ME towers are like a minute walk from ICS/Engineering lmao)
      cheapest option yet by a whole marathon the highest quality rooming option.
      // cons:
      4 people to a room (meaning you’ll have 3 roommates!) so if you’re not used to that it may be a bit of a change lol. also it’s bunk beds
      kinda going off the last one but the rooms are well-sized but not massive, so unless you’ve got amazing roommates don’t expect to be able to sprawl your stuff out tooo much (you’ll still have your own desk/closet ofc)
      extremely competitive, even if you have 3 other mutually-requested roommates it’s still a complete lottery (I did this and got a double with one of my requested roommates)
      international / out of state get a touch of priority here iirc so if you’re in-state it’s just that much more in the air
      — I’m going to split the classics into two different categories (one for Mesa, one for ME) as I believe there’s some contrasts to consider —
      MESA CLASSICS:
      If they run your SPOP like they did for ours, you’ll likely end out staying here during your SPOP so you’ll get a glimpse of the layout ahead of time
      depending on which building you’re in, you’ll either be very close to the bridge taking you to ring road or to the anteatery (in either case, you’re still close to both generally speaking regardless of where in this option you land)
      generally speaking, mesa is considered more lively/social than ME so if that’s your goal then you’ll probably want to give Mesa a shot
      room quality isn’t as nice as the towers but still pretty alright for the most part (it’s a dorm, as long as you weren’t expecting anything too lavish you probably won’t be too disappointed)
      the dorm I stayed in here during SPOP had a piano which was dope asf. also these classics are generally regarded as more visually appealing than the ME classics, the layout is also generally regarded as not being too bad
      // cons:
      as with all the classics… they’re still classics. They’re only getting older but honestly mesa classics are still regarded as being okay. expect to have to file a work order (or at least some person in your suite prolly will)
      more expensive than the quad option for towers.
      if you’re on the bottom floor, bugs aren’t nearly as bad here as middle earth but still happen, so unfortunately a roach-in-bathroom story COULD have some merit even in mesa.
      as with mesa in general, you’re further away from most of central campus than ME, especially a lot of non-bio/health STEM buildings (ICS, Engineering, etc)
      some people don’t like the suite layouts, also the showers at SPOP were TINY from my experience (then again, I’m 6’6 so take my word on this w a grain of salt, did not fit the beds either lol)
      common room layout is kinda weird for some of the classics in mesa
      MIDDLE EARTH CLASSICS: // pros:
      EXTREMELY DEPENDENT ON WHICH PHASE YOU GET. Phase 3 are the newest, Phase 1 are practically right behind the towers so you’re much closer to main campus in most cases
      basketball court and pippin gym/lounge are practically embedded with the dorms so you’ll have decent physical amenities within reach (mesa has courts too, though I personally like ME layout for this more.)
      Some building have their bathrooms on the first floor actually have locks (as well as the showers for suites on the bottom floor!)
      quirky names for each of the buildings which is always fun to joke about. also ME is known for being very STEM-side of campus so if you’re in that field and don’t mind it being quieter this isn’t too bad for that.
      closer to UTC than Mesa, DSC is also very close so if you have a disability you’ll be within pretty feasible walking distance
      // cons:
      THE GHETTO OF THIS CAMPUS AND IT IS NON-NEGOTIABLE. Phase 1 are quite literally the oldest dorms on campus, many of which are outdated and would probably not pass modern-day housing inspection regulations.
      Considering some of this are from the 70’s, your ceilings are literally popcorn/asbestos and extremely low.
      housing office/maintenance does their best but you’ll be filing five times the amount of work orders compared to mesa, and likely for worse reasons.
      PESTS. In fact, there is actually a mouse my roommate and I cannot find as of the time of this writing that is actively inside of my room. This is the fourth time this quarter, and tenth or so since the year started. I also woke up two hours ago because a spider was on my pillow. A week ago, a family of crickets were on my pillow. I have pictures of all of this too if you’re really in disbelief. It’s bad. Especially for finals week.
      none of the classics have A/C, so if you’re on the top floor just pray you’re not staying over the summer. also start of the year can be brutal (90 degrees isn’t impossible for september)
      depending on which phase you’re in, expect to have about 7-10 people per bathroom/stall. Don’t expect the restrooms to be nice either.
      deep cleaning happens 1-2 times a month, regular cleaning once a week at best.
      if you do have maintenance problems, it can be days or up to weeks until they get resolved. honestly UCI’s fault not even maintenance, they seem like they work very hard but can only do so much
      common room layouts vary. can be alright, but also can just be extremely old furniture/non functional TV/fan
      I got really lucky as my dorm is generally very chill/nice, but I’ve heard of beef in a number of the other dorms in the ME classics…
      all more expensive than the ME towers and I struggle to call these living conditions manageable sometimes (comparatively speaking to the rest of UCI’s housing options)
      science library is much larger than langson though both are great
      CONFLICT OF INTEREST: I am in the classics at Middle Earth, though flooding and severe leakage has happened more than once for the buildings here so I’ve had the opportunity to stay in Mesa as well. These pros and cons reflect my genuine experience and holistic understanding of the housing here as a first year.
      TLDR: towers good, classics (especially middle earth) bad. mesa is closer to humanities/arts, ME is closer to stem. towers are cheaper and significantly nicer than the classics.
      Once again, congrats on making it such far, I hope you enjoy UCI should you decide to enroll here!
      zot zot
--- COMMENTS ---
[comment]
none of current dorm options have AC
[comment]
True! For me, I never had an issue with needing AC because I would open my window wiiiide open (and at night) and turn on a small fan, and it was perfectly fine!
[comment]
For STEM majors from one in Mesa: Sometimes you’ll get class that’s earlier in the day cuz registration and it’s a pain to wake up early and walk nearly 20 minutes every morning in a rush everyday (i’m not a morning person at alll)
      I wish I lived in middle so that I could take a nap if I wanted between classes instead of walking back to mesa and then back to the STEM side of campus and having that consume my time.
      *ps i’m just tired lazy student who is not a morning person. my friend in middle earth who has early classes can just get up a bit before class and be there on time whereas i have to wake up like at least 30 mins before or im late 😭
[comment]
^ UPVOTE!!!! i got convinced to try for mesa towers because of the “social” aspect but tbh middle earth towers r social and they’re so much more accessible to all your classes! i HAAAAAATE getting out of my dorm 30 mins early just to make it to the other side of campus 😭
[comment]
THIS IS SO TRUE. mesa is like for popular people in high school and everyone forms their little groups ykwim middle earth is more for chill environment people, everyone is WAY more welcoming and easier to make friends with
      other people agree with this too
[comment]
I'd like to also add into the cons and pro list for ME (with specifics for classics):
Pros:
      - You get access to that one building next to ME housing that is extremely quiet, very good for studying. They used to have a bean bag chair too but it's gone this year :(
      - Also close to campus for phase 1
      - At least with my dorm, there's a bathtub for girls in the first floor if you want to take baths
      Cons:
      - If you live in phase 2, some places don't have elevators, so expect to take multiple trips up and down the stairs upon move-in/move out
      - Also with this, you share 1 kitchen and laundry with another dorm, so on top of traveling up and down the stairs be ready to have your laundry on top of the machine, fully filled communal fridge, and in some cases, wait for the kitchen to open cause some people might use the kitchen to cook.
[comment]
Holy shit, you did in fact break it down. I agree with it all though! Kudos to you bro looking out for these first years 😭
[comment]
On top of the family of spiders and the mouse we still haven’t found in my room, the shower is also no longer draining and smells worse of septic with the water rising every time someone flushes.
      also thank you guys for adding onto the list!! I like hearing other people’s experiences too haha.
[comment]
I actually didn’t have a bad experience in ME with regard to bathroom. Our facilities worker cleaned daily, and then deep cleaned weekly… although this was 2021-22 which was covid era so maybe they changed it idk
[comment]
Which part of Middle Earth did you live in? Thanks!
[comment]
The three story apartment looking dorms by APS
  u/Windows
    [comment]
Public restroom in classic ME is the worst lol. For freshmen who's deciding housing, I want to really stress out about this. You are signing up for public restroom shared with a bunch of 18, 19 years old. It's gonna be just as bad as your high school restroom. You will see throw up. There will be days its so bad you don't want to use it but it's the only option.
[comment]
I spent 2 years in Mesa classics, it was decent. I've visited mesa towers & Middle earth towers, they are very, very nice as long as you can tolerate having 3 roommates. I visited a friend who dormed in middle earth classics once and never wanted to come back again.
      None of the dorms have air conditioning. There was heating but I don't think it ever worked in the room, only in the small common rooms and big room on the first floor (mesa classic). Only ACC apartments have A/C (VDC has free A/C).
      If you're worried about the distance from classes, just get a cheap bike. Bike theft is very common here so don't spend too much and get a good lock, or park it inside the dorms. Electric skateboard or normal skateboard is fun too. Just don't get an electric scooter.
[comment]
> bathroom is connected to the room, and you have elevators!
      Do we clean our bathrooms ourselves? Or are there janitors who go around and clean them? Thanks.
[comment]
Conflict of interest on my part, but my time living in ME Classics Phase 2 wasn't bad at all.
      Yes there isn't any AC, but none of the on-campus dorms have AC besides maybe the towers, but those aren't specific to the room. Each room does have a heater though. It does get hot during the start and end of the school year, but that's what fans and windows are for.
      The kitchen and laundry situation sucks sometimes, but I realized that I didn't really utilize the kitchen a lot due to my meal plan. While on the topic of kitchen, highly recommend getting a mini fridge + microwave combo, it comes in handy.
      Laundry was manageable, four washers and driers for two halls (only phase 2 ME) and after a few weeks I was able to figure out when the less popular laundry times were.
      Bathroom situation isn't bad at all, had three showers and three stalls. Were a few times that the bathroom was more than a bit dirty but cleaning staff removed that quickly, they're amazing. It's the same deal with the laundry situation, you just have to learn when the bathroom is busy.
      As for towers, I spent a lot of time hanging out in the Mesa Court towers, really great space, really social as well.
      Middle Earth Towers are great as well, social too but more of a chill vibe. Great study rooms and amenities. If you're in ME, Wellinghall and Buckleberry are amazing study spaces.
      Wellinghall has a great view of the ME fields and has a lot of seating and outlets.
      Buckleberry has a library vibe with some decent seating but not a lot of outlets, really nice for late night study sessions.
[comment]
My ME classics experience hasn't been super bad. I've had no pest problems, and no ac isn't really a problem. Keeping the windows open a bit throughout the day helps a lot with ventilation and if you bring a fan it doesn't really get too hot. Really the only complaints I have are in on the third floor with no elevator so going up a bunch of times each day with a backpack is a bit of effort, and the bathrooms get pretty dirty. It's mostly the sink countertops to worry about and occasionally the showers with people leaving hair and tissue paper in there. Also the sinks are hit or miss, some work fine and some barely give any water, then depending on the people who live in the floor they might use them to wash their dishes and clog the drains with food.
      Tldr: ME classics experience not that bad, but the bathroom situations kinda suck sometimes
[comment]
u should also note that mesa classics also have different phases and you can and will be far away from anteatery and the bridge if you get a newer phased classic, you'll be closer to the lot 5 and streets :)
[comment]
Also!! Mesa has a rec centre and 24 hour study room right by the Anteatery, it's closer to the Bren, and if you're an arts/humanities major, Mesa is closer to those buildings. There's quite a bit of construction happening in the back of Mesa Court rn too, and if you live by Lot 5 in the later phase buildings, you'll be wayy further away from everything (it's nice if you have a car though).