Source: r/UCI | Honest opinions about living in Plaza Verde
URL:
Title: Honest opinions about living in plaza verde? (especially if you live on the first floor)
Just got assigned first floor in PV and while that sounds convenient for moving in, I honestly don’t know what to expect. Has anybody experienced bug issues, technical issues, or just all around negative consequences with living on the first floor of plaza verde or any floor in general?
--- COMMENTS ---
[comment]
Lived on the 2nd floor last year. Good things: rooms are decently nice, good storage in my opinion, bathrooms are generally large, the living room area is good for having guests over, Plaza is the 2nd closest ACC apartments to UCI so biking is feasible (walking too but I don't advise it if possible), across the street from Albertsons and the other stores there, personally I had some internet issues (not connectivity issues though) but when I didn't have any the internet worked flawlessly and super fast. The mattress is also comfortable and apparently better than vdcn's and camino's (according to my friends). Same goes for the couch.
      Bad things: despite being "modern" you can tell after a while that the apartment isn't as well built as a UCI tower dorm, from personal experience I had the floor always be dusty and despite sweeping and vacuuming nearly every other day dust would build up, and more so because the ground would sometimes feel sticky. According to a friend this was due to the glue seeping up from the laminate and attracting dust. Additionally the sink is pretty shallow so when you wash dishes, be mindful that water will and can splash everywhere outside of the sink. The electric stove is a big no go, terrible for cooking, but you can't really do much about that. Bathrooms are unnecessarily large and could've been made smaller to make either the kitchen or bedrooms bigger (I was in a 4 bed 2 bath layout btw). Also, you may have heard Plaza is the main center of attention for hanging out, so you'll hear many people here and there, and if you're unlucky, maybe the occasional screaming and honking from the parking structure at night if you're nearby. Being on the first floor, you might hear people above you, I know personally the people above my floor would always be loud, as if they're moving things around and doing construction above lmao. Also for bus situation, yes there's a bus stop nearby but apparently getting a spot in the bus is hard sometimes especially when a lot of people are heading to class since Plaza is the last bus stop before heading to school.
      Hopefully that helps, pm me if you have any other questions 🙂
      Edit: spelling
[comment]
I really appreciate your detailed response. I chose PV for the “modern” look but I was definitely worried about the quality of the building itself. I’ll be looking into pots and pans that can accommodate for the terrible electric stove situation. Thank you for your help!
[comment]
Oh I see! Now I’m definitely hoping for a room that doesn’t face the sidewalk considering I’ll be living alone and I’m super paranoid about security. Thank you so much for the insight.
[comment]
I lived on the first floor last year at pv. It was fine for the most part. I did like that I didn’t have to go up flights of stairs esp w laundry or groceries (there are elevators but I heard they broke down sometimes).
      For bug issues, there were drain flies(?) that were flying around the kitchen sink, but after I called maintenance, they solved it right away. There were also mosquitoes during the hotter months.
      My biggest issue with living on the first floor is that I rarely open my window blinds or the windows because anyone outside walking by could see in my room and I did not feel safe like that. (Although my apartment was one that was next to the sidewalk, so if yours is not, I think it would be fine to open your blinds and window.)
      Not really sure what you mean by technical issues, the wifi there last year was really good, but I heard it got downgraded this summer, so not sure how it is now. You could also have noise problems with the person living above you, but it depends, I would just call the front desk for a noise complaint and hopefully they'll be quieter.
      If you have any more questions lmk :)
[comment]
Overall I really liked it. The only thing I didn’t like was that it didn’t feel safe to open the blinds or windows very often and people look into rooms depending on where you are floor plan wise (I was facing the parking lot and sidewalk)