Source: r/UCI | ACC question — VDC vs Plaza Verde experiences
URL:
Title: ACC question - comment your experiences in VDC/Plaza!
uci reddit is so full of questions about acc rn so i feel bad posting an acc question LMFAO
      my roommate and i are applying to acc tmr and our primary community is VDC and then Plaza. We’re thinking to do a 4bd 2bth plan or a 2bd 2bth for VDC, and 4bd 4bth or 4bd 2bth A for Plaza.
      I forgot how many options for communities/floor plans there are on the ACC app so we just ranked stuff lmao
      how’s the space in a 4bd type of floor plan? the virtual tour on the website makes it seem small af. and how do y’all deal with the wifi issue flare ups?
      if you have any of those floor plans or just general opinions about the living quality in those communities i’d love to hear!!
  anthropic-ai
    [comment]
i lived in a vdc 4b2b apartment for two years, and i think you get the most space for your buck. the rooms are actually pretty spacious, and the shared living space is reasonable as well. here are my pros and cons of vdc:
      pros:
      space and privacy! loved having a single room
      great amenities: pool, study rooms, movie room, community center, etc.
      internet problems were easily solved with ethernet when i lived there, but this was before they changed the provider
      loved having a balcony for outdoor space
      maintenance requests were timely
      electricity and gas and water is included in rent
      cons:
      some units are updated, some aren’t aka you may get apartments with wood floors vs carpet and tile. obviously the wood floored ones were a lot nicer, and they had updated appliances as well (black instead of white)
      no ceiling fan, no icemaker in the fridge
      no stainless steel appliances
      farthest from campus, so longest bus ride if you take the anteater express
      i lived in a plaza 1b1b my last year and loved it. here are my pros and cons for plaza
      pros:
      updated apartments: wood flooring, stainless steel appliances, ceiling fan, icemaker in the fridge
      trash chutes and elevators
      felt more modern and clean
      great amenities: study rooms, gym, community center
      covered parking
      maintenance requests were timely
      closer to campus, i could walk and didn’t mind it
      cons:
      parking structure would get full at night, and back up parking was at the arc (kinda far and inconvenient)
      less windows than vdc and no patio/balcony
      kinda random, but they would play music super early in the morning in the courtyards and it would always wake me up lol
      electricity is not included in the rent
      i’ve never actually seen the 4b2b in plaza, but i have been told the rooms are pretty small
      expensive since it’s new
      the water heater was located inside the apartment and i swear anytime i used a drop of hot water, it would automatically start blowing out cold air and make the apartment freezing. i had high electricity bills because i always needed the heater on.
      both communities are furnished, but parking is not included. both also have laundry rooms NOT in unit, but plaza has a elevator to take down to the laundry room (with more laundry rooms), where vdc you take the stairs and walk however far your apartment is from the 3 laundry rooms (unless you live in the deluxe apartments, but those are 3b2b, 2b2b or 1b1b). i personally liked plaza over vdc, but again, i lived in a 1b1b by myself!
[comment]
this is so informative and thorough THANK YOU SO MUCH!! 🫶
[comment]
You can apply for 3 communities, and you get 2 floorplans per community (unless that has been changed since last year, nobody knows except housing themselves)
[comment]
thank you for the info! will def adjust my preferences accordingly 🤝
[comment]
I lived in the 4bed 2 bath in plaza and I liked it overall, the kitchen was smaller compared to my 2bed 2bath shared this year but it was doable. The walls aren’t that thick I could always hear Everyone talking and the windows open like 6inches only which I hated. And I always had to pay around 20-30 in electricity Another thing is that if you get your own room the beds are bigger than in a shared room so you get a bit more space